Explanation on Window ,screen and document

I see these terms used interchangeably as the global environment for the DOM. What is the difference (if there is one) and when should I use each one? Let’s find out more about these in this article.

WINDOW

Window is the main JavaScript object root, aka the global object in a browser, also can be treated as the root of the document object model. You can access it as window.

Well, the window is the first thing that gets loaded into the browser. This window object has the majority of the properties like length, innerWidth, innerHeight, name, if it has been closed, its parents, and more.

DOCUMENT

What about the document object then? The Document object(DOM) is your html, aspx, php, or other document that will be loaded into the browser. The document actually gets loaded inside the window object and has properties available to it like title, URL, cookie, etc. What does this really mean? That means if you want to access a property for the window it is window.property, if it is document it is window.document.property which is also available in short as document.property.

window.document or just document is the main object of the potentially visible (or better yet: rendered) document object model/DOM.
Since window is the global object you can reference any properties of it with just the property name - so you do not have to write down window. - it will be figured out by the runtime.

SCREEN

The Window object also has a screen object with properties describing the physical display:
screen properties width and height are the full screen,
screen properties availWidth and availHeight omit the toolbar,
window.screen or just screen is a small information object about physical screen dimensions.

An iframe actually is considered as a new window with its own document loaded into it. Here is where it may seem a little odd, but does make sense if you think about it. The original, parent window, is responsible for other windows to be loaded, not the document.

The property to access a frame is window.frames[], which is an array of all the frames. If you only have one iframe you access it by using window.frames[0]. Since the iframe is also a window object, accessing window properties of that frame is done by using window.frames[0].mywindowproperty.



